# Scio v0.12.0

## `com.spotify.scio.extra.bigquery` removal

For usages of `saveAvroAsBigQuery`, use `saveAsBigQueryTable` from `com.spotify.scio.bigquery` instead.

```diff
- scoll.saveAvroAsBigQuery(tableRef)
+ scoll.saveAsBigQueryTable(table)
```

## Removal of `com.spotify.scio.pubsub` specializations

Specialized methods in `com.spotify.scio.pubsub` have been removed in favor of generic `.read` and `.write` methods.

The `PubsubIO.apply` method has been completely removed, use `PubsubIO.string`, `PubsubIO.avro`, `PubsubIO.proto`, `PubsubIO.pubsub` or `PubsubIO.coder` instead.

Additionally:

* `PubsubIO.readString` is replaced by `PubsubIO.string`
* `PubsubIO.readAvro` is replaced by `PubsubIO.avro`
* `PubsubIO.readProto` is replaced by `PubsubIO.proto`
* `PubsubIO.readPubsub` is replaced by `PubsubIO.pubsub`
* `PubsubIO.readCoder` is replaced by `PubsubIO.coder`

The `pubsubSubscription` and `pubsubTopic` methods are replaced by one of the preceding IOs in conjunction with a `PubsubIO.ReadParam`. For example:
```scala
sc.read(PubsubIO.string(subscription, idAttribute, timestampAttribute))(PubsubIO.ReadParam(PubsubIO.Subscription))
sc.read(PubsubIO.string(topic, idAttribute, timestampAttribute))(PubsubIO.ReadParam(PubsubIO.Topic))
```

The `pubsubSubscriptionWithAttributes` and `pubsubTopicWithAttributes` methods are replaced by `PubsubIO.withAttributes`. For example:
```scala
sc.read(PubsubIO.withAttributes[String](subscription, idAttribute, timestampAttribute))(PubsubIO.ReadParam(PubsubIO.Subscription))
sc.read(PubsubIO.withAttributes[String](topic, idAttribute, timestampAttribute))(PubsubIO.ReadParam(PubsubIO.Topic))
```

The `saveAsPubsub` and `saveAsPubsubWithAttributes` are similarly replaced in conjunction with a `PubsubIO.WriteParam`:
```scala
scoll.write(PubsubIO.string(topic, idAttribute, timestampAttribute))(PubsubIO.WriteParam())
scoll.write(PubsubIO.withAttributes[String](topic, idAttribute, timestampAttribute))(PubsubIO.WriteParam())
```

## Changed type signatures of SMB methods

There are substantial changes to the java SMB API to accommodate secondary-keyed SMB. 
For example, `AvroSortedBucketIO.Write` changes signature from `Write<K, T extends GenericRecord>` to `Write<K1, K2, T extends GenericRecord>`. Most users will only interact with the scala API.

## Removed Beam-SQL

Removed `typedBigQueryTable` methods. Use instead `bigQuerySelect`, `bigQueryTable`, `bigQueryStorage`, `typedBigQuery`, or `typedBigQueryStorage`.

## File IO file naming

File-based IO methods now have a consistent file-naming interface.
`saveAs*` methods now accept, in addition to `path` and `suffix`, an optional `shardNameTemplate`, `tempDirectory`, and `filenamePolicySupplier`.
`shardNameTemplate` and `filenamePolicySupplier` are mutually exclusive.

`shardNameTemplate` is a string pattern for filenames as accepted by [`DefaultFilenamePolicy.constructName`](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/java/core/src/main/java/org/apache/beam/sdk/io/DefaultFilenamePolicy.java#L255).

`filenamePolicySupplier` is an instance of `FilenamePolicySupplier`, which takes the `path` and `suffix` as provided to most `saveAs*` methods and returns a `FilenamePolicy`.

## BinaryIO saveAsBinaryFile

`saveAsBinaryFile` has been updated to use `FilenamePolicySupplier` per above and drops support for `FileNaming`.

## ParquetIO saveAsDynamicParquetAvroFile → saveAsParquetAvroFile

`saveAsDynamicParquetAvroFile` had an inconsistent interface compared to other `saveAsDynamic*` methods.

The pre-0.12 behavior of the `filenameFunction` parameter of `saveAsDynamicParquetAvroFile` is now supported via the `FilenamePolicySupplier` parameter of the non-dynamic `saveAsParquetAvroFile`, per above.

A new and more consistent `saveAsDynamicParquetAvroFile` is added:

```scala
import com.spotify.scio.values.SCollection
import com.spotify.scio.parquet.avro.dynamic._
case class MyClass(s: String, i: Int)
val scoll: SCollection[MyClass] = ???
scoll.saveAsDynamicParquetAvroFile("gs://output/") { m => s"/${m.s}/${m.i}"}
```
