# Scio v0.13.0

## gcs-connector now explicitly required

Previously Scio shipped with `com.google.cloud.bigdataoss:gcs-connector` as part of `scio-parquet`.
This dependency is now removed, so `gcs-connector` must be explicitly enabled if using parquet on GCS:

```
val bigdataossVersion = "2.2.6"

libraryDependencies ++= Seq(
  "com.google.cloud.bigdataoss" % "gcs-connector" % s"hadoop2-$bigdataossVersion"
)
```

## Removed `scio-elasticsearch6`

Please migrate to `scio-elasticsearch8`.

## `scio-elasticsearch7` migrated to java client

`saveAsElasticsearch` now requires a transform function returning `co.elastic.clients.elasticsearch.core.bulk.BulkOperation` instead of `org.elasticsearch.action.DocWriteRequest`.

## New File based ScioIO parameters

File-based IOs now consistently have a `suffix` parameter.
In cases where `ReadParam` was `Unit`, then a new param will be required.
This is the case for example with `AvroIO` and `GenericRecordIO`:

```diff
- sc.read(GenericRecordIO(path, schema))
+ sc.read(GenericRecordIO(path, schema))(AvroIO.ReadParam(suffix))
- sc.read(SpecificRecordIO[T](path))
+ sc.read(SpecificRecordIO[T](path))(AvroIO.ReadParam(suffix))
```

## Kryo Coders nondeterministic

Kryo coders in Scio have long been marked as deterministic but users were cautioned to not use them in cases where determinism is important (e.g. with `distinct` or to encode keys in keyed operations) and when the Kryo coders were not explicitly known to be deterministic.
Users who did not understand or follow these instructions could silently produce corrupt data or incomplete results.

Kryo coders are now marked as nondeterministic in all cases and an exception will be thrown if used in keyed operations.

## Changed `skewedJoin` API

Removes some variants of `skewedJoin` APIs with `Long` threshold parameters.
Use the variants with a `HotKeyMethod` parameter instead, providing `HotKeyMethod.Threshold(myThresold)` as its value.

## Tensorflow unused predict type parameter

The Tensorflow `predict` and `predictWithSigDef` methods had an unused type parameter that is now removed.

```diff
- elements.predict[B, D]("gs://model-path", fetchOpts, options)(toTensors)(fromTensors)
+ elements.predict[B]("gs://model-path", fetchOpts, options)(toTensors)(fromTensors)
- elements.predictWithSigDef[B, D]("gs://model-path", options)(toTensors)(fromTensors _)
+ elements.predictWithSigDef[B]("gs://model-path", options)(toTensors)(fromTensors _)
```
