# Scio v0.14.0

## Coders

Some coders have moved away from the default implicit scope. By updating to scio 0.14, you may encounter the following
error:

```
Cannot find an implicit Coder instance for type:
...
```

If the type is or contains an avro class, you can import the `com.spotify.scio.avro._` package to get the implicit avro coders
back in scope. See [avro removed from core](#avro-removed-from-core) for more details.

If the type relied on a fallback coder, we advise you to create a custom coder. See [coders](../../internals/Coders.md/#how-to-build-a-custom-coder) for more details.
If you want to use kryo implicit fallback coders as before, this requires now to import `com.spotify.scio.coders.kryo._` explicitly.

## Avro removed from core

Avro coders are now a part of the `com.spotify.scio.avro` package.
```scala
import com.spotify.scio.avro._
```

Update direct usage:
```diff
- Coder.avroGenericRecordCoder(schema)
+ avroGenericRecordCoder(schema)
- Coder.avroGenericRecordCoder
+ avroGenericRecordCoder
- Coder.avroSpecificRecordCoder[T]
+ avroSpecificRecordCoder[T]
- Coder.avroSpecificFixedCoder[U]
+ avroSpecificFixedCoder[U]
```

Dynamic avro and protobuf writes are now in `com.spotify.scio.avro.dynamic`.
If using `saveAsDynamicAvroFile` or `saveAsDynamicProtobufFile`, add the following:
```scala
import com.spotify.scio.avro.dynamic._
```

Avro schemas are now in `com.spotify.scio.avro.schemas` package:
```scala
import com.spotify.scio.avro.schemas._
```

## Materialize no longer splittable

Materialize was previously implemented using an Avro wrapper around byte arrays.
To keep `materialize` in `scio-core` it has been reimplemented with `saveAsBinaryFile`, which writes a sequence of records with no sub-file blocks, and thus does not support trivially splitting the file on read.
We have found little use of materialize for large datasets that are not also saved permanently, so we expect the impact of this change to be minimal.

## New `binaryFile` read

See the relevant @scaladoc[binaryFile](com.spotify.scio.ScioContext#binaryFile(path:String,reader:com.spotify.scio.io.BinaryIO.BinaryFileReader,compression:org.apache.beam.sdk.io.Compression,emptyMatchTreatment:org.apache.beam.sdk.io.fs.EmptyMatchTreatment,suffix:String):com.spotify.scio.values.SCollection[Array[Byte]]) scaladoc and example @extref[BinaryInOut](example:BinaryInOut).

## parquet-tensorflow metadata

When using tensorflow with `scio-parquet`, you must now depend on `scio-tensorflow` as well.

The parquet-tensorflow API has been migrated from custom [`parquet-extra`](https://github.com/nevillelyh/parquet-extra)
to the official [metadata](https://github.com/tensorflow/metadata) API.

`schema` and `projection` are now of type `org.tensorflow.metadata.v0.Schema`.

## scio-smb provided implementations

When using `scio-smb`, you also need to depend on the scio module that provides the file format implementation you want to use.
See [Sort-Merge-Bucket](../../extras/Sort-Merge-Bucket.md/#what-kind-of-data-can-i-write-using-smb-) for more details.